Describe the "kernel".
The kernel is the essential center of a computer operating system (OS).
What are the three main purposes of an operating system?
(1) manage the computer's resources, such as the central processing unit, memory, disk drives, and printers, (2) establish a user interface, and (3) execute and provide services for applications software.
Give two reasons why caches are useful.
(1)they can increase the speed of the average memory access, and they do so without taking up as much physical space as the lower elements of the memory hierarchy. (2) They ameliorate the (performance critical) memory access time by leveraging spatial and temporal locality.
Name and describe three kernel data structures.
Process Table: The process table stores information about all the processes running in the system. These include the storage information, execution status, file information etc. File Table:The file table contains entries about all the files in the system. If two or more processes use the same file, then they contain the same file information and the file descriptor number. V-Node and I-Node Tables: Both the v-node and i-node are references to the storage system of the file and the storage mechanisms. They connect the hardware to the software.
Describe the difference between policy and mechanism.
Policies are ways to choose which activities to perform. Mechanisms are the implementations that enforce policies, and often depend to some extent on the hardware on which the operating system runs
Describe both Asymmetric and Symmetric Multiprocessing?
Symmetric multiprocessing is the processing of programs by multiple processors that share a common operating system and memory. Asymmetric multiprocessing is the processing of programs by multiple processors that function according to the master-slave relationship.
What is the main advantage and disadvantages of the layered approach to system design?
As in all cases of modular design, designing an operating system in a modular way has several advantages. The system is easier to debug and modify because changes affect only limited sections of the system rather than touching all sections of the operating system. Information is kept only where it is needed and is accessible only within a defined and restricted area, so any bugs affecting that data must be limited to a specific module or layer
Describe a micro-kernel operating system structure.
A micro-kernel comprises only the core functionalities of the system.
List five services provided by an operating system, and explain how each creates convenience for users.
(1)Program execution. The operating system loads the contents (or sections) of a file into memory and begins its execution. A userlevel program could not be trusted to properly allocate CPU time. (2) I/O operations. Disks, tapes, serial lines, and other devices must be communicated with at a very low level. The user need only specify the device and the operation to perform on it, while the system converts that request into device- or controller-specific commands. User-level programs cannot be trusted to access only devices they should have access to and to access them only when they are otherwise unused. (3) File-system manipulation. There are many details in file creation, deletion, allocation, and naming that users should not have to perform. Blocks of disk space are used by files and must be tracked. Deleting a file requires removing the name file information and freeing the allocated blocks. Protections must also be checked to assure proper file access. User programs could neither ensure adherence to protection methods nor be trusted to allocate only free blocks and deallocate blocks on file deletion. (4) Communications.Message passing between systems requires messages to be turned into packets of information, sent to the network controller, transmitted across a communications medium, and reassembled by the destination system. Packet ordering and data correction must take place. Again, user programs might not coordinate access to the network device, or they might receive packets destined for other processes. (5) Error detection. Error detection occurs at both the hardware and software levels. At the hardware level, all data transfers must be inspected to ensure that data have not been corrupted in transit. All data on media must be checked to be sure they have not changed since they were written to the media. At the software level, media must be checked for data consistency; for instance, whether the number of allocated and unallocated blocks of storage match the total number on the device. There, errors are frequently processindependent (for instance, the corruption of data on a disk), so there must be a global program (the operating system) that handles all types of errors. Also, by having errors processed by the operating system, processes need not contain code to catch and correct all the errors possible on a system.
Using Unix/POSIX operating system calls, write a command line statement that merges together two files into a new file, where the contents of the first file are concatenated with the contents of the second. These files do not have to "mesh".
cat A.txt B.txt > C.txt
How are course grades determined?
Homework Assignments (4 at 25% Each) 100% and Final 25%(Optional)
Describe what the Final Exam does.
Final Exam is optional and replaces a lower, previous Homework
Which language must all programming assignments be written?
Java
When must a regrade request occur?
Regrade requests may only be made within ONE WEEK after the assignment has been graded.
True or False. It is acceptable to work in groups on homework assignments. 
False
